The four-mode map is not a taxonomy to memorize.
It is a routing tool.
Before the next prompt, identify the uncertainty, the judgment you must keep, the execution the agent can take, and the evidence that will prove the result.
First, Separate human intensity from agent intensity.
Second, Match the mode to uncertainty, judgment, and risk.
Third, Switch deliberately and keep outcome ownership.
Use asking for one bounded uncertainty, collaboration for iterative judgment, exploration for an unstable destination, and delegation for specified execution.
If the task changes, the mode should change with it.
Following practical AI and agent work methods matters because the models will keep changing, while the need to define intent, boundaries, evidence, and responsibility will remain.
Those skills let you use stronger systems without giving up judgment.
On your next task, draw the two axes, choose the smallest useful mode, and write the stop condition before you begin.
That is how an AI workflow becomes more capable and more trustworthy at the same time.